You are welcome to file issues or, even better, contribute code to this repo. If
you want to report an issue, please read [FAQ 1](https://bit.ly/knitr-faq) first.

## Issues

For bug reports, please provide a minimal reproducible example. By "minimal", I
mean you should reduce your example as much as possible right before the problem
you want to report disappears. By doing this, you may be able to figure out what
the problem really is before reporting to me. Please do not make me read your
hundreds of lines of code (most of which are irrelevant to the bug), or
understand dozens of variables in your particular dataset (use a simple built-in
dataset in R instead, such as `iris` or `mtcars`, or simulated data). Make your
example self-contained in one single document, i.e. avoid reading external files
if possible, which you may forget to attach to your bug report.

To include a verbatim chunk of arbitrary text, indent it by four spaces,
especially when it contains backticks, e.g.

        A sample document.

        ```{r}
        1 + 1  # a line of code
        ```

        Another paragraph.

If it is just a chunk of R code (or other languages) and you want syntax
highlighting, you may use three backticks to format it, e.g.

    ```r
    rnorm(10)
    ```

## Pull requests

You may expedite bug fixes and new features by doing the work by yourself.
For very simple changes such as fixing typos, you can just edit the file by
clicking the button `Edit` after you open it here on Github. For more
complicated changes, you will have to manually create a [pull
request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests) (PR) after
[forking](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) this repository. In the
latter case, you are recommended to create a new branch instead of always
working on the `master` branch, and please always rebase against my `master`
branch (sometimes you will need to force push, i.e. `git push -f`, after
rebasing):

```bash
# suppose your-branch-name is your new branch name
git pull --rebase https://github.com/yihui/knitr.git your-branch-name
```

If your PR contains commits that revert each other, or attempts that failed, you
need to clean the GIT history (and force push). For example, you may combine all
the last 5 commits into one:

```bash
git reset --soft HEAD~5
# then git add/commit/push
```

Interactively rebasing a few commits is also very helpful in this case, which
gives you granular control over the commits, e.g. `git rebase -i HEAD~5`.

## Testing

To make sure you did not break anything, you need to run tests, which are
done through the [**testit**](http://cran.rstudio.com/package=testit)
package. If you added any features, add your own tests in `tests/testit/`.

You can build the package and run the tests from a shell. Ensure that the root
"knitr" project directory is in your working directory, then:

```bash
R CMD build knitr
R CMD check knitr_<version>.tar.gz
```

## Travis CI

If you are lazy or do not understand what I said above, just push commits to
your repo, submit a PR, wait for a few minutes, then take a look at the
`Commits` panel -- if you see green check marks ✔ on your commits, you are fine.
[Travis CI](http://yihui.name/en/2013/04/travis-ci-general-purpose/) will run
the tests automatically for me. If your pull request passes the tests, you see
green check marks, otherwise you see red crosses, and you will probably get
email notifications as well.

- [An example PR that passed the
  check](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/pull/852/commits)
- [An example PR that failed](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/pull/832/commits)

When your PR does not pass the check, you need to click on the red cross to see
details. There are two sets of tests: `R CMD check` on the package source, as
well as the test on examples. The former is basically the unit tests, and the
latter is to make sure your changes does not break my existing examples in the
[knitr-examples](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples).

## Roxygen2 documentation

If your changes involve the roxygen2 documentation, please _do not_ include the
changes under the `man/` directory, which are generated by `roxygenize()`. I
will run `roxygenize()` by myself after I merge your PR. You should keep the
changes in your PR minimal by excluding the roxygen2 artifacts from your GIT
commits, so it will be easier for me to review your PR.

## Misc

For a non-trivial fix or feature implementation, please let me know before you
start working on it, since I do not want to waste too much of your time on
something that I may not really want.

Thanks, and happy hacking.
