---
layout: default
title: Minimal examples
subtitle: Examples for Rnw, GFM, HTML and LaTeX
category: demo
---

For beginners, it is probably a good idea to start with some minimal examples; here I provide three examples for Rnw, LaTeX, GFM (GitHub Flavored Markdown) and HTML, respectively.

- Rnw
  - Rnw source: [knitr-minimal.Rnw](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/master/inst/examples/knitr-minimal.Rnw)
  - PDF output: [knitr-minimal.pdf](https://github.com/downloads/yihui/knitr/knitr-minimal.pdf)
- GFM
  - md source: [knitr-minimal\_knit\_.md](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/raw/master/inst/examples/knitr-minimal_knit_.md)
  - output: [knitr-minimal.md](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/master/inst/examples/knitr-minimal.md) (GitHub does the job of parsing the md file to HTML)
- HTML
  - html source: [knitr-minimal\_knit\_.html](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/master/inst/examples/knitr-minimal_knit_.html)
  - output: [knitr-minimal.html](https://github.com/downloads/yihui/knitr/knitr-minimal.html)
- LaTeX
  - tex source: [knitr-latex\_knit\_.tex](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/master/inst/examples/knitr-latex_knit_.tex)

Except the GFM demo, you can directly use `knit()` to knit the input file, e.g.,

{% highlight r %}
library(knitr)
knit('knitr-minimal.Rnw')
knit('knitr-minimal_knit_.html')
{% endhighlight %}

The instructions on how to knit the GFM demo are in the md file. Note for the HTML demo, you need to install the **rgl** package to get the snapshot in the output.

As you might have seen, different input formats correspond to different syntax. `Rnw` uses `<<>>=` and `@`, `tex` uses `% begin.rcode` and `% end.rcode`. The syntax is customizable (not recommended); see the [patterns](/knitr/patterns) page for details.

One consideration in defining the default syntax for these files is that we should try not to break the syntax of other software systems, e.g. for LaTeX and HTML, the chunk options are written in comments, so the original document is still a valid TeX or HTML document. Unfortunately the original author(s) of literate programming did not seem to care about this issue at all, and invented the `<<>>=` + `@` syntax; then Sweave added even more invalid commands like `\SweaveOpts` and `\Sexpr`; we cannot do much about them since they have been used for many years, and we are likely to be in bigger troubles if we break these rules. The LaTeX example above only serves as an example of how I would have defined the syntax, and you may not really want to follow it.

As a final side note, the extension `Rnw` is a combination of `R` + `nw` where `nw` stands for `Noweb` (= `No` + `web`), and `WEB` was coined by Donald Knuth to denote the idea of weaving documents. Today probably everybody will think of WWW when seeing the word `web`.
