---
layout: default
title: Control output
subtitle: Manipulate six types of chunk output
category: demo
---

As introduced in the [main manual](https://github.com/downloads/yihui/knitr/knitr-manual.pdf), **knitr** uses the **evaluate** package to evaluate R code chunks, and there are six types of output: source code, normal text output, messages, warnings, errors and plots. Below we give a summary on the fine control over them.

1. source code: use chunk option `echo`, e.g. `echo=FALSE` hides the R code
1. normal text output: use option `results` (`markup` marks up the results; `asis` return texts as-is; `hide` hides the results)
1. messages: option `message` (`FALSE` hides messages)
1. warnings: option `warning` (`FALSE` hides warnings)
1. errors: option `error` (`FALSE` hides error messages)
1. plots: option `fig.keep` (`none` discards all plots; `low` for all plots including low-level plots; `high` for high-level plots)

These options are orthogonal to each other, so you are free to turn on/off one type of output without affecting other pieces.

By default, `echo` and `eval` can take values from an R expression, which brings the feature of conditional evaluation introduced in the main manual. In short, `eval=dothis` means the real value of `eval` is taken from a variable named `dothis` in the global environment; by manipulating this variable, we can turn on/off the evaluation of a batch of chunks.

## One comment on messages

Many people like to use `cat()` to write messages in R, and this is a very bad practice, because it is inconvenient to turn off such messages. When we really mean _messages_, we should use `message()`. These regular messages can be conveniently suppressed by `suppressMessages()` or captured by **knitr**. Some package authors did not seem to pay attention to this issue; when we load a package or use functions in a package, we may see fake messages that cannot be supppressed. If a startup message is really necessary, it should be put in `packageStartupMessage()`. When you are unable to turn off some messages by `message=FALSE` in **knitr**, it is probably time to request the package authors to make some changes.

Similarly, we should use `warning()` when we really mean a warning.

So watch out your `cat`s!