---
layout: default
title: Package vignettes
subtitle: How to build package vignettes with knitr
category: demo
---

Since R 3.0.0, non-Sweave vignettes are officially supported. Please see the
section "Non-Sweave vignettes" in the manual "[Writing R
Extensions](http://cran.r-project.org/doc/manuals/r-devel/R-exts.html#Non_002dSweave-vignettes)".
Basically what you need to do for Rnw vignettes are:

1. add `%\VignetteEngine{knitr::knitr}` to the Rnw source document (note you still need `%\VignetteIndexEntry{}` as before);
1. specify `VignetteBuilder: knitr` in the package `DESCRIPTION` file;
1. add `Suggests: knitr` in `DESCRIPTION` if **knitr** is needed _only_ for vignettes;

Then all your Rnw vignettes will be compiled by **knitr** instead of the
default engine Sweave. The vignette engine `knitr::knitr` is only one of
possible engines in **knitr**. To see all of them, run

{% highlight r %}
library(knitr)
library(tools)
names(vignetteEngine(package = 'knitr'))
# for example:
# "knitr::rmarkdown" "knitr::knitr" "knitr::docco_classic" "knitr::docco_linear"
# "knitr::knitr_notangle" ...
{% endhighlight %}

The engines with the suffix `_notangle` have the same weave functions as those
without the suffix, but have disabled the tangle function, meaning that there
will not be R scripts generated from vignettes during `R CMD build` or `R CMD
check`. See [here](http://bit.ly/SnLi6h) for a discussion on why sometimes we
may not want to tangle R scripts from vignettes (basically it is redundant for R
CMD check to run the same code again after the code has been executed in weave,
and currently the inline R code expressions are not included in the tangle
output, which can cause problems).

All the document formats that **knitr** supports can be used for package
vignettes (e.g. [R
Markdown](http://www.rstudio.com/ide/docs/authoring/using_markdown)). I have
[some examples](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/master/vignettes/) in
the **knitr** package, and [many other
packages](https://gist.github.com/yihui/7698648) on CRAN also contain
**knitr** vignettes.

Since R 3.1.0, any document that has specified the vignette engine via
`%\VignetteEngine{}` can be compiled through the command line `R CMD Sweave`.
This is not restricted to Sweave documents or R package vignettes.

I really appreciate the generous support by one of the R core members Duncan
Murdoch as well as the hard work by Henrik Bengtsson.

---

STOP reading now if you are using R 3.0.0 or above. The hack described below
is no longer recommended.

---

Currently R can only use Sweave to build package vignettes, so if we want to
build vignettes with **knitr**, we have to use some tricks. One way to do
this is through a Makefile, which will be used by `R CMD build` when
building vignettes. In this Makefile, we can set our rules to create the PDF
file using a custom tool like **knitr**.

## How knitr's vignette is built

To illustrate that a Makefile is plausible to build a vignette with **knitr**,
this package itself has provided a vignette built with a
[Makefile](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/7eb34104/inst/doc/Makefile).

The basic idea is to use `Rscript` with an argument `-e` to execute an R
expression, and the R code in the Makefile should be self-explanatory. I
followed Ross Ihaka's
[tutorial](http://www.stat.auckland.ac.nz/~stat782/downloads/make-tutorial.pdf)
and used a variable `PDFS` in the Makefile, so if you want to build more
PDF's, you just add their names to `PDFS`.

## When your vignette is not compatible to Sweave

If you want to use the power of **knitr** to build vignettes but
unfortunately your syntax is not compatible to Sweave, e.g. `results="hide"`
(you should not quote `hide` in Sweave), you still have even darker tricks
to cheat R. I hate to mention this, but that is all due to the restriction
of R that vignettes must go through Sweave first anyway. The hint is that
you can put a fake vignette which is valid to Sweave, then put a real
vignette somewhere else. In the Makefile, you copy the real vignette to
`./inst/doc/` and run **knitr** on it. After that, you restore the fake
vignette as if nothing happened.

We have appealed to R core for a few times that package authors should be
able to decide how to build their vignettes, but this has not come true.
Long live the voodoo!

## Markdown vignettes

You do not have to write vignettes in LaTeX; see [this
post](/en/2012/09/r-package-markdown-vignettes/) for how to write vignettes
easily with markdown.

## A few comments

Now I tend not to put the real vignettes in my packages for the reasons below:

1. It takes more time to check and compile on CRAN; yes I can turn on cache,
  but the cache files are like pollution to the package source and I want a
  clean package;
1. PDF vignettes are often too big compared to other files in the package
 (e.g. R source code), so I do not want to bring extra burden to our CRAN
 hosts, knowing that the number of packages has been growing exponentially;
1. I can keep track of the number of downloads when I put them on Bitbucket
  whereas I can know little information from CRAN;

So I just went green.

I thank Carl Boettiger, Ross Ihaka and Andrew Redd for their Makefile examples.
