---
layout: default
title: Package framed
subtitle: Default LaTeX style in knitr
category: demo
---

By default, **knitr** uses a LaTeX package named [framed](http://www.ctan.org/pkg/framed) for typesetting; the most obvious feature is the light gray shading. In this page, we introduce some tricks and known problems.

As listed in [FAQ's](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/blob/master/FAQ.md), you may see the output overflow the shading box, and you can set `options('width')` to a smaller value in this case; the **framed** package does not work well with the `center` environment either.

## Overflow of elements

Besides text overflow, figures may also exceed the margin of the shading. If a figure is too wide, LaTeX may complain there is something wrong with the `kframe` environment, which is what **knitr** uses to wrap up the chunk output. A known case is about PNG graphics in [#154](https://github.com/yihui/knitr/issues/154). To make sure your figures do not exceed the page margin, **knitr** uses the following command in the LaTeX preamble:

{% highlight tex %}
%% maxwidth is the original width if it's less than linewidth
%% otherwise use linewidth (to make sure the graphics do not exceed the margin)
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{ %
  \ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth
    \linewidth
  \else
    \Gin@nat@width
  \fi
}
\makeatother
{% endhighlight %}

The chunk option `out.width` is set to `'\\maxwidth'` by default if the output format is LaTeX.

## Padding of the shading box

This LaTeX command sets the padding to be 5mm if you feel the default layout is too parsimonious (no padding at all).

{% highlight tex %}
\setlength\fboxsep{5mm}
{% endhighlight %}

If you do not like this default style with the **framed** package, you are free to switch to other styles like [listings](../listings/) or even define your own output [hooks](/knitr/hooks).

## Incompatible environments with **framed**

The `kframe` environment cannot be used in the `center` environment, e.g. this will cause an error in LaTeX:

{% highlight tex %}
\begin{center}
<<>>=
rnorm(10)
@
\end{center}
{% endhighlight %}

Remember you do not need to use the `center` environment to center figures, because **knitr** supports the chunk option `fig.align='center'` which was designed to center figures only. The `center` environment may also bring side effects to other output in the chunk.

In other cases, usually you can use the chunk option `results='asis'` to avoid the `kframe` environment when you want to write raw LaTeX output. Here is an example:

{% highlight r %}
<<tabular-test, echo=FALSE, results='asis'>>=
tab = expand.grid(a = 1:4, b = c("A", "B"))
library(xtable)
xtable(tab)  # an ordinary table
## here is a long table (you need \usepackage{longtable} in preamble)
print(xtable(iris, caption = 'The iris data.'),
  tabular.environment = 'longtable', floating = FALSE)
@
{% endhighlight %}

It does not work well with the `figure*` environment in two-column documents either; see [knitr-twocolumn.pdf](https://github.com/downloads/yihui/knitr/knitr-twocolumn.pdf) for one approach to deal with this situation.

