---
layout: default
title: Pandoc
subtitle: Convert Markdown to other formats via Pandoc
categories: demo
---

The function `pandoc()` in **knitr** (since version 1.2) was designed to
convert Markdown documents to other formats such as LaTeX/PDF, HTML and Word
(odt/docx). The main idea is to minimize the command-line call by wrapping
commands into a configuration file or embedded configurations. Normally we
call Pandoc via command line like this:

{% highlight bash %}
pandoc -s --mathjax --number-sections --bibliography=foo.bib -o output.html input.md
{% endhighlight %}

It is tedious to type the same command again and again. What `pandoc()` does
is to execute the command like above in R via `system()`, but read the
Pandoc arguments from a config file, so that we can write all arguments in
the file once, and simply call `pandoc('input.md')` afterwards.

Please follow the instructions on the [Pandoc
website](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/) to install it.

## Absolute beginners

If you have no experience using the command line, you can try this function
without any configurations. Write a Markdown file, say, `foo.md`, and throw
it into `pandoc()`:

{% highlight r %}
library(knitr)
pandoc('foo.md', format='html')  # HTML
pandoc('foo.md', format='latex') # LaTeX/PDF
pandoc('foo.md', format='docx')  # MS Word
pandoc('foo.md', format='odt')   # OpenDocument
{% endhighlight %}

But you often need some custom options like what we showed in the beginning.
Now we explain how to pass such options to Pandoc.

## A simple example

Suppose you want to convert Markdown to HTML with arguments in the first
command line example, you can write a config file like this (`<empty>` here
means you should leave this option empty):

{% highlight control %}
t: html
s: <empty>
mathjax: <empty>
number-sections: <empty>
bibliography: foo.bib
o: output.html
{% endhighlight %}

You can save it as `foo.txt` and run

{% highlight r %}
library(knitr)
pandoc('input.md', format='html', config='foo.txt')
{% endhighlight %}

Then **knitr** will parse this config file and turn it into pandoc
arguments. The empty options such as `s` and `mathjax` are turned to `-s`
and `--mathjax` respectively, and those non-empty options like `bibliography`
and `o` are converted to `--bibliography=foo.bib` and `-o output.html`
respectively.

## The config file

The config file is essentially a Debian Control File. Here are some rules:

1. the option name and value are separated by `:`
1. an option can have a value of multiple lines but all the following lines
  have to be indented by white spaces
1. blank lines are used to separate records (paragraphs)

The first rule is simple. For the second rule, consider `bibliography`: when
there are multiple bibliography databases to be passed to Pandoc, we can
write the config file as

{% highlight control %}
bibliography: paper1.bib
  paper2.bib
  paper3.bib
{% endhighlight %}

In this case, it is converted to `--bibliography=paper1.bib
--bibliography=paper2.bib --bibliography=paper3.bib` and passed to Pandoc.

For the third rule, it is useful when we define multiple output formats in
the config file; below is an example of two records for `html` and `latex`
output:

{% highlight control %}
t: html
s: <empty>
mathjax: <empty>
number-sections: <empty>
bibliography: foo.bib
o: output.html

t: latex
latex-engine: xelatex
s: <empty>
number-sections: <empty>
output: test.pdf
{% endhighlight %}

With this config file, we can call `pandoc('input.md', format='latex',
config='foo.txt')` and we will get a PDF file `test.pdf`.

The name of the config file is obtained from `getOption('config.pandoc')` by
default, which means you can set `options(config.pandoc =
'path/to/your/config.file')` as a global option. If this option is not set,
the `pandoc()` function will look for a file `foo.pandoc` where `foo` is the
base name of the input file, e.g. it looks for `test.pandoc` if the input
file is `test.md`. In other words, the config file has the same name as the
Markdown file except that it has a different extension.

## Common options

Sometimes we want to share some a few common options across different output
formats. For instance, `--number-sections` can be used for both PDF and HTML
output. The record that does not contain the `t` tag is treated as common
options for all formats. Now we can rewrite the above config file as:

{% highlight control %}
s: <empty>
number-sections: <empty>

t: html
mathjax: <empty>
bibliography: foo.bib
o: output.html

t: latex
latex-engine: xelatex
output: test.pdf
{% endhighlight %}

Note the `s` and `number-sections` are extracted to a separate record
without a `t` tag.

## Embedded configurations

We may want to make the Markdown file self-contained in the sense that the
configurations are embedded in it, so we do not need to rely on an external
config file. In this case, we can use a special comment `<!--pandoc -->` in
the Markdown file.

{% highlight html %}
<!--pandoc
t: html
s:
mathjax:
number-sections:
bibliography: foo.bib
o: output.html
-->
{% endhighlight %}

Now we can pass a single file to other people and they will be able to call
`pandoc()` to convert it to the expected format.

If both the config file and embedded configurations are found, they will be
combined as if they were from a single file.

## Complete examples

See the example [084](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples) (using an external
[config file](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples/blob/master/084-pandoc.pandoc))
and [088](https://github.com/yihui/knitr-examples) (using embedded configurations).
